# **pointer & reference**


## **pointer**

A pointer is a variable that holds the memory address of another variable. A pointer needs to be dereferenced with the `*` operator to access the memory location it points to. 


## **references**
A reference variable is an alias, that is, another name for an already existing variable. A reference, like a pointer, is also implemented by storing the address of an object. 

## **differences between references and pointers**

**1. initialization:**<br/>
A pointer can be initialized in this way
```cpp
int a = 10;
int *p = &a;	// decleared and assigned
// OR 
int *p;			// decleared
p = &a;			// assigned
```
we can decleare and initialize pointer in same or in multiple line.

While in reference
```cpp
int a = 10;
int &p = a; // It is correct
// but
int &p;
p = a; // incorrect
```
we should declare and initialize references at single step.


**2. reassignment**<br/>
A pointer can be re-assigned. This property is useful for the implementation of data structures like a linked list, a tree, etc.

On the other hand, a reference cannot be re-assigned, and must be assigned at initialization.


**3. memory address**<br/>
A pointer has its own memory address and size on the stack.

whereas a reference shares the same memory address with the original variable but also takes up some space on the stack.

**4. Indirection**<br/>
You can have a pointer to pointer (known as a double pointer) offering extra levels of indirection.

whereas references only offer one level of indirection.


## **nullprt**

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

// function with integer argument
void fun(int N) { cout << "fun(int)"; return;}

// Overloaded function with char pointer argument
void fun(char* s) { cout << "fun(char *)"; return;}

int main()
{
	// Ideally, it should have called fun(char *),
	// but it causes compiler error.
	fun(NULL);
}
```
NULL is typically defined as (void *)0 and conversion of NULL to integral types is allowed. So the function call fun(NULL) becomes ambiguous.

**Q. How does nullptr solve the problem?**<br/>
In the above program, if we replace NULL with nullptr, we get the output as “fun(char *)”.

nullptr is a keyword that can be used at all places where NULL is expected. Like NULL, nullptr is implicitly convertible and comparable to any pointer type. Unlike NULL, it is not implicitly convertible or comparable to integral types. although nullptr is convertible to bool.


## **dangling pointer**

A pointer pointing to a memory location that has been deleted (or freed) is called dangling pointer. ways where pointer act as dangling pointer,

**ex - deallocation of memeory**
```cpp
// Deallocating a memory pointed by ptr causes
// dangling pointer

#include <cstdlib>
#include <iostream>

int main()
{
	int* ptr = (int *)malloc(sizeof(int));

	// After below free call, ptr becomes a
	// dangling pointer
	free(ptr);
	
	// No more a dangling pointer
	ptr = NULL;
}
```

**ex - function call**
```cpp
// The pointer pointing to local variable becomes
// dangling when local variable is not static.
#include <iostream>

int* fun()
{
	// x is local variable and goes out of
	// scope after an execution of fun() is
	// over.
	int x = 5;
	return &x;
}

// Driver Code
int main()
{
	int *p = fun();
	fflush(stdin);

	// p points to something which is not
	// valid anymore(garbage address)
	std::cout << *p;

	return 0;
}
```

## **wild pointer**<br/>
A pointer which has not been initialized to anything (not even NULL) is known as wild pointer.
The pointer may be initialized to a non-NULL memory address that may be a valid or invalid address with a garbage value.

```cpp
int main()
{
	int *p; /* wild pointer */

	int x = 10;

	// p is not a wild pointer now
	p = &x;

	return 0;
}
```

## **void pointer**






