# **literals & indetifiers**

  ## **Variable naming convensions**
- Only `alphabets, numbers, $ and _ `are allowed in a variable name. No other character is allowed.
- You cannot start a variable name with a number. It can start with only an alphabet or a $ sign or an _.

## **Operators**

Precedence determines the way in which operators are given priority amongst each other. An operator with higher precedence is evaluated before an operator of lower precedence.

you can check in javascript precedence chart

### **DataTypes :**

JavaScript has six **primitive datatypes** - `string, number, boolean, null, undefined (five types in ES5) and Symbol (sixth type in ES6)`.


### **Type Coercion :**

Type Coercion is the process in which one data type is converted into another in order for an operation to be performed.

if you do an arithmetic operation on string, it would be converted into Number if the string is a valid number.
//example needed


You also saw how to instruct JavaScript to convert a string to a number explicitly. The three methods you just learnt are:
- Use Number() functions
- Use parseInt() or parseFloat() function
- Use +() function
The +() is the fastest way amongst all three.


### **Undefined && null :**

`Null` signifies that the container is purposefully kept empty. On the other hand, `undefined` means that the container does not have anything inside it. `Null` is like saying I am keeping my tea container empty. `Undefined` is like saying that I have a container but I have forgotten to put anything inside it. That’s why null is set by the user i.e you. This is not the case with undefined as any value which has not been defined is initialized undefined by the translator.

```js
console.log(1 + null)
//output->1
console.log(1 + undefined)
//output->NaN

```

You also learnt about `===`, which is known as the **strict equality operator.**

**It returns true only when both the data type as well as the values are equal.**

```js
console.log(typeof 12)  -> number
console.log(typeof true)  -> boolean
console.log(typeof string)  -> string
console.log(typeof undefined)  -> undefined
console.log(typeof null)  -> object
```

## **var let and const keywords**

### **var keyword :**
if we use `var` keyword to decleare varibales, we can use the variable before intializing, as long as it is initilized somewhere in the program.
we can redecler the same variable name without any errors.

### **let keyword :**
if we use `let` keyword to decleare variables, we can't use the varibale before intialization, it will throw a referance error.
we can't redeclear variable decleared with `let` keyword but we can upadate(reassign) the varibale value.
it's scope is block level.

### **const keyword :**
if we use `const` keyword while declaring the variable, we need to provide the value as well.
we can't update the `const` varibale value and we can't redcleare it.
it's scope is block level.