# Polymorphism

## overloading
If we have two methods with same method name but different argument types, then we can say the methods are overloaded.
- In overloading method resolution is alway based on the referance type by the compiler.

## automatic promotion in overloading
- If compiler try to perform method resolution for overloaded methods, it first try argument promotion if there are a valid promotion before raising any CE:

```java
public class Test {
    public static void m1(int a) {
      System.out.println(a);
    }
    public static void m1(float a) {
      System.out.println(a);
    }
    
    public static void main (String[] args) {
      Test t = new Test();
      t.m1(10);
      t.m1(10.5f);
      t.m1('a');
    }
}
// output: 
// 10
// 10.5
// 97
```
`Note:` if multiple method is a candiate of a automatic argument promotion the child class object will get the first priority if the arugments are with parent child relation, otherwise if there is not relation will get a CE:\
In method overloading method resolution is always based on referance type but not runtime object.

## method overriding
- In overriding method resolution is taken care by JVM(aka runtime polymorphism).
- co-variant return type is allowed in 1.4 v,
- co-variant return type applicable only for object, for pre-emtive type it's not allowed.
- co-variant return type only parent and class object relation is applicable in return type as well.
- While performing overriding we can't reduce the scope of modifier but increasing the modifier scope is allowed.
- If child class method throws any exception, compulsary the parent class should throw same or child's parent class exception.

### Static method rules.
- Static to non-static method overriding is not allowed, if both the methods are static then it's called method hidding but not method overriding.
- In method hidding, method resolution is based on reference type by the compiler. But in overriding method resolution is based on runtime object by the JVM.

### Overriding wrt var-args
- If we extends a var-arg method with normal method, that's actually method overloading but not overriding.

### Overriding wrt variable
- In java no such concept of variable overriding.
- variable resolution is based on reference type by the compiler.

### Object type casting
**Type casting syntax:**
A b = (c) d
- Compiler check1: The type of `d` and `c` must have a relation, either child-parent, parent-child or same.
- Compiler check2: The type of `c` either same as `A` or child of `A`
- JVM check3: The underlying original object(runtime object)  of type `d` must be same as `c` or child of `c`