# Queue

It represents a data structure where elements are processed based on a specific order.

- Elements follow FIFO (First-In-First-Out) in LinkedList and priority order in PriorityQueue
- Elements cannot be accessed directly using an index
- Allows storing duplicate elements

## Common Implementations of Queue Interface
- **LinkedList**: Implements List and Deque interfaces, allows null elements, and can be used as a FIFO queue when used through the Queue interface.
- **ArrayDeque:** A resizable array-based queue that is faster than LinkedList and does not allow nulls.
- **PriorityQueue**: A queue where elements are processed according to their priority instead of insertion order.
- **ConcurrentLinkedQueue**: A thread-safe, non-blocking queue suitable for concurrent environments.
- **BlockingQueue**: A thread-safe queue that supports blocking operations for producer-consumer scenarios.


## PriorityQueue:
A PriorityQueue in Java is a queue where elements are ordered based on their priority, rather than the order of insertion.

- Elements are processed based on priority rather than insertion order.
- Supports standard queue operations like add(), poll(), and peek().
- Automatically grows as elements are added and null insertion is not possible .
- Uses a heap data structure internally to ensure efficient insertion and removal of the highest-priority element.

```java
import java.util.*;

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
      Queue<Integer> pr = new PriorityQueue<>();
      
      // method to add element into PriorityQueue
      pr.add(12);
      pr.add(10);
      
      // retrives head element or null if empty
      System.out.println("peek the Queue:" + pr.peek());
      System.out.println(pr);
      
      System.out.println("poll the Queue:" + pr.poll());
      System.out.println(pr);
      
      // remove the head of Queue
      System.out.println("Remove head of Queue:" + pr.remove());
      System.out.println(pr);
      
    }
}
```


