# Fundamentals

- In java every variable and expression has some type, each and every data type is clearly defined, every assignment should be checked by compiler for type compatibility(`java language is strongly typed`)



## Indentifiers:
- You can use alphabet characters (a-z, A-Z), digits (0-9), the underscore symbol (_), and the dollar sign ($).
- We can use any class and interface name as indentifiers, but we can't use reseved keywords
- In Java we have `53` reserved word.
    - reserved word(53)
        - keywords(50)
            - used keywords(48)
                - datatypes(8)`(byte, short, int, long, float, double, boolean, char)`
            - unused keywords(2)
                - goto
                - const
        - Reserved literals(3)
            - true
            - false
            - null

> Note: in java return type is mandatory, if a method don't return anything we have to declare the method with `void` return type.

### keywords:
- We can use `enum` to define a group of names constants.
- e.g.
```java
enum months {
    jan, feb, march, april, ...
}
```

### Premitive datatypes:
- `byte`
    - size 1 byte(8 bits)
    - range of values: +127 to - 128

- `short`
    - size 2 bytes(16 bits)

- `int`
    - size 4 bytes(32 bits)

- `long`
    - size 8 bytes(64 bits)

> Note: the character in a big file is might exceed the int range that's why the return type of `length()` method is `long`

- `float`
    - if we require less floating point accuracy
    - 4 bytes(32 bits)

- `double`
    - if we require more floating point accuracy than float
    - 8 bytes(64 bits)

- `boolean`
    - size NA[vm dependable]
    - range: NA(allowed values are true/false)

- `char`
    - char is unicode based
    - size 2 bytes(16 bits)


Note: Classes representation of primitive data types are called as Wrapper Classes

## Type Casting:

The process of converting data from one data type to another data type is called as `Type Casting`. 
There are two types of type castings are existed in java. 
 
1.Primitive data Types Type Casting \
2.User defined Data Types Type Casting 
 
> Note: To perform User defined data types type casting we need either "extends" relation 
or "implements" relation between user defined data types. 

### 1. Primitive data types type casting:

There are two types of primitive data types type castings. 

#### 1. Implicit Type Casting:
The process of converting data from lower data type to higher data type is called as 
Implicit Type Casting. 

byte ---> short ---> int ---> long ---> float ---> double \
char ---^
 
If we want to perform implicit type casting in java applications then we have to assign 
lower data type variables to higher data type variables.

#### 2. Explicit Type Casting: 
The process of converting data from higher data type to lower data type is called as 
Explicit Type Casting. 
 
To perform explicit type casting we have to use the following pattern. 
 
P   a   =   (Q)   b; 
 
(Q) -> Cast operator 
Where P and Q are two primitive data types, where Q must be either same as P or lower 
than P as per implicit type casting chart.
