# Access Modifier

## Class level Modifiers:
Whenever we are writing our own classes, we have to provide some information about our class to the JVM.

### Top level class modifiers
1. public 
2. default 
3. final
4. abstract
5. strictfp

### Inner class modifiers

1. public
    - we can access class from anywhere

2. default
    - we can access class within the package / package leverl access
3. final
    - (applicable for class/method/variable final class can't inherit)
    - A class declared with final can't be extended/inherited
    - A method declared with final can't be overide
    - a variable declared with final can't be redeclared and reinitialize within a close scope

4. abstract
    - applicable for class/method
    - A method declared with abstract, even though we don't know about implementation sill we can declare a method with abstract modifier. For abstact method only declaration is available not implementation.
      ```java
        class test {
            abstract public int getWheels();
        }
        // we can implement this getWheels method in the child classes
        ```
    - By declaring abstract method in the parent class we can provide guidelines to the child classes such that the method compolsary child has to implement.
    - Abstract method never talks about implementation. If any modifier talks about implementation then it forms illegal combination with abstract modifier. `e.g.`(methods)final, native, synchronized, static, private, strictfp.
    - For any java class if we are not allowed to create an object(becuase of partial implementaion) such type of class we have to declare with abstract modifier.
    - If atleast one method is defined as abstract, compulsary we have to declare the parrent class as abstract

5. strictfp
    - Applicable for classes/methods
    - Floating point arithmatic reuslts are dependant on platform to platform, if we want plaftform independant result we should go for strictfp modifier.
    - If a method declared as strictfp, all the floating point calculation in that method has to follow IEEE-754 standard so that we get platform indepandant results.
    - If a class declared as strictfp, then every floating point calculation in every concreate method has to follow IEEE754 standards.

6. private
7. protected
8. static


9. synchronized
10. native
    - applicable for methods
    - The method which are implemented in non-java are called native/foreign methods
12. transient
13. volatile


## Member level modifiers:
1. public
   - Can be access from anywhere(if the container class is public)
2. default
   - Can be access within package / also know as package level access
3. private
   - Can be access within the class.
4. protected
   - Can be access within the package, and outside package only in child classes.
   - we can access protected member from outside of package only in child classes, and we should use that child class only.


## Variable level modifiers:
1. final
   - class level variables(instance/static) are assigned with default value by JVM.
   - if variable are defined with final modifier, programmer need to take care of initialization of that variable before constuctor creation.
   - **Static variable**
       - With final we have to initialize the variable before class loading completion
         ```java
         // at the time of declaration
         class Test{
             final static int x = 10;
         }

         // inside static block
         class Test{
             final static int x;
             static {
                 x = 10;
             }
         }
         ```
    - formal parameters of a method simply access local variables of that method hence formal parameter can be declare as final. If formal parameter declare as final then within a method we can't perform reassignment.

Note: The only applicable modifier for local variable is final, any other modifier will raise a compiler time error.


    


