# Access Modifier

## Class level Modifiers:
Whenever we are writing our own classes, we have to provide some information about our class to the JVM. We can specify this information by using corresponding modifiers.

### Top level class applicable modifiers
1. public 
2. default 
3. final
4. abstract
5. strictfp

### Inner class modifiers

1. public 
2. default 
3. final
4. abstract
5. strictfp
      + 
6. private
7. protected
8. static

### Access Modifiers:

1.  **public (class/method/variable)**
    - we can access class from anywhere. Within the pkg or outside of pkg.
    - If a memeber is declared as public then we can access that memeber from anywhere, but both the class and methods should be public.

2. **default (class/method/variable)**
    - we can access class within the package / package level access
    - Same goes for members.

3. **final (class/method/variable)**
    - A class declared with `final` can't be extended/inherited
    - A method declared with `final` can't be overriden.
    - a variable declared with `final` can't be `redeclared` and `reinitialize` within a close scope

4. **abstract (class/method)**
    - For any java class if we are not allowed to create an object(becuase of partial implementaion) such type of class we have to declare with `abstract` modifier.
    - If atleast one method is defined as `abstract`, compulsary we have to declare the parrent class as `abstract`
    - A method declared with `abstract`, even though we don't know about implementation, still we can declare a method with abstract modifier. For abstact methods only declaration is available not implementation.
      ```java
        abstract class test {
            abstract public int getWheels();
        }
        // we can implement this getWheels method in the child classes
        ```
    - By declaring `abstract` method in the parent class, we can provide guidelines to the child classes such that the method compulsarily the child has to implement.
    - If a class extends any `abstract class` then compulsory we should provide implementation for every `abstract method` of the parent class. Otherwise we have to declare the child class as `abstract`.
    - Abstract method never talks about implementation. If any other modifiers talks about implementation then it forms illegal combination with abstract modifier. `e.g.`(illegal modifiers)final, native, synchronized, static, private, strictfp.
    
    **What is the need of abstract class consturctor?**
    Even though we can provide intialization of instance variable(if present any) of abstract class from it's child class constructor. For every child class again we have to provide intialization for instance variable. To remove the code redundancy for each child class of that abstract class we can initialize the instance variable of abstract class to it's own constructor.
   

5. **strictfp(classes/methods)**
    - Floating point arithmatic reuslts are dependant on platform to platform, if we want plaftform independant result we should go for strictfp modifier.
    - If a class declared as `strictfp`, then every floating point calculation in every concreate method has to follow IEEE754 standards.
    - If a method declared as `strictfp`, all the floating point calculation in that method has to follow IEEE-754 standard so that we get platform indepandant results.

6. **private (method/variable)** 
   - If a member declared as private then we can only access that memeber within the current class.
   - Private methods are not visible in child classes.
7. **protected (method/variable)**
   - If a member declared as protected, then we can access that member within the current package anywhere but outside package only in child classes.
8. **static(method/variable)**
   - if the value is not varied from object to object such type of variable  is not recomended to declare as instance variable. We have to declare them as class level variable using `static` modifier.
9.  **synchronized(method/blocks)**
    - if a method or block declared with synchronized keyword then at a time only one thread is allow to execute the method or block on the given object.
10. **native (methods)**
    - The method which are implemented in non-java are called native/foreign methods.
  
11. transient
12. volatile

> Note: The only applicable modifier for local variables is `final` if we are using any other modifier we will get compile time error. 

Formal parameters:
- The formal parameters of a method are simply act as local variables of that method hence it is possible to delcare formal parameter as `final`.
```java
public class Main {
    public static void printBal(final int amount) {
      amount = 500000; //will throw a error
      System.out.println(amount);
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
      printBal(20000);
      
    }
}
```

## Member level modifiers:
1. **public**
   - Can be access from anywhere(if the container class is `public`)
2. **default**
   - Can be access within package / also know as package level access
3. **private**
   - Can be only access within the class.
4. **protected**
   - Can be access within the package, and outside package only in child classes.
   - we can access `protected` member from outside of package only in child classes, and we should use that child class only.


## Variable level modifiers:
1. final
   - class level variables(instance/static) are assigned with default value by JVM.
   - if variable are defined with final modifier, programmer need to take care of initialization of that variable before constuctor creation.
   - **Static variable**
       - With final we have to initialize the variable before class loading completion
         ```java
         // at the time of declaration
         class Test{
             final static int x = 10;
         }

         // inside static block
         class Test{
             final static int x;
             static {
                 x = 10;
             }
         }
         ```
    - formal parameters of a method simply access local variables of that method hence formal parameter can be declare as final. If formal parameter declare as final then within a method we can't perform reassignment.

Note: The only applicable modifier for local variable is final, any other modifier will raise a compiler time error.


    


