# Interface
- Any service requirment specification is consider as interface.
  - eg. JDBC api access requirement specification to develope database driver. Database vendor is responsible to implement this JDBC api.
- Inside interface every method is always `abstract` wether we are declaring or not, hence interface is consider as 100% pure abstract class.

## Implementation
- Whenever we are implementing an interface, for each and every method of that interface we have to provide implementation. Otherwise we have to declare implementation class as abstract, then next level child class is responsible to provide implementation.
- Every interface method is always `public` and `abstract` whether we are declaring or not, hence whenever we are implementing an interface method compulsary we should declare as public.
  ```java
  interface inter {
      //default modifier is public ->  To make this method available to every implementation class
      // abstract -> Implementation class is responsible to provide implementation
      void m1();
      void m2();
  }

  abstract class seviceProvider implements inter {
      public void m1() {
          // method body
      }
      // since we are not providing implementation for all the interface method we should delcare class as abstract
  }

  class subServiceProvider extends serviceProvider {
      public void m2() {
          // method body
      }
  }
    ```

## Extend vs Implements
- A class can extend only one class at a time, but an interface can extend any number of interfaces.
- A class can implement any number of interfaces at a time.
- A class can extend another class and implement any number of interfaces.

## Interface methods:

Note: Inside interface all the below methods are equivalent.
```java
void m1();
public void m1();
abstract void m1();
public abstract void m1();
```


## Interface varibales
The main purpose of interface variable is to define requirement level constants.
- Every interface variable is `public static final` whether we are declaring or not.
- As every interface varible is `public static final` we can't declare with the following modifiers `private, protected, transient, volatile`.
- For interface variable we should perform intialization at the time of declaration or will get CE:

## Interfaces naming conflicts
### method conficts
- If two interface contains a method with the same signeture and same return type then in the implementation class, we have to provide implementation for any one method.
- a class can provide implementation for any number of interfaces, except if both the interface have same signeture methods.

### variable conflicts
- Two interfaces can contain a variable with the same name, and there may a variable naming conflicts. But we can solve this by using the interface name to access the variable.
```java
interface left {
    int x = 777;
}

interface right {
    int x = 888;
}

class test implements left, right {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println(left.x + right.x);
    }
}
```

## Marker Interface
If an interface does't contain any method, and by implementing that interface if our object get some ability, such type of interfaces called marker interfaces.
- e.g:
    - Serializable(I)
    - Conleable(I)
    - RandomAccess(I)
    - SimpleThreadModel(I)

`Note:` Internally JVM is responsible to provide required ability. \
**Why JVM providing requied ability for marker interface?** \
To reduce complexity of programming and to make java language as simple.

## Adapter class
- Adapter class is a simple java class, that implements an interface with only empty implentation.
- It's a programmer trick to implement interface methods based on the requirement.
```java
interface test {
    m1();
    m2();
    m3();
    .
    .
    m1000();
}

// for each method in interface class defining empty implementation
class make implements test {
    m1() {}
    m2() {}
    m3() {}
    .
    .
    m1000() {}
}

// to avoid providing implementation for every method each time use implement the interface we use the below programming trick of adapter class
abstract adapterx implements test {
    m1() {}
    m2() {}
    m3() {}
    .
    .
    m1000() {}
}

class test1 extends adapterx {
    m3() {}
}

class test1 extends adapterx {
    m999() {}
}
```


## interface vs abstract class vs concreate class
|interface|abstract class | concreate class|
|---------|---------------|----------------|
|Only we have only requirement specification<br>and no idea about implementation`(servlet(I))`| If we talk about partial implementation<br>`(Generic servlet(I))` | If we talk about full implementation and<br>ready to provide service`(myOwnServlet)`|



## Interface vs abstract class
|interface|abstract class|
|---------|--------------|
|100% pure abstract class | every method need not be public `abstract`<br> and we can take concreate method also|
|As every interface method is always `public abstract`<br>
hence all can't go with all modifiers| There are no restriction on abstract class method modifiers|
| All variable are by default `public static final` | No such restriction|
| Need to initialize at the time of declaration | No such restriction|
| static and instance block are not allowed | No such restriction |
| We can't declare constructors | we can declare constructor|

**Why we can define constructor in abstract class though we are not able to creat a object of a abstract class?**
Abstract class constructor will be executed whenever we are creating child class object to perform intialization of child class object.
