# New java 8 features

## Functional Interfaces
if an interface contain only one abstract method, such type of interfaces are called functional interfaces and the method is called functional method or single abstract method(SAM).

Inside functional interface in addition to single Abstract method(SAM) we write any number of `default` and `static methods`.

```java
interface Interf {
  public void m1();
  default void m2() {

  }
  public static void m3() {

  }
}
```

## @FunctionalInterface
introduced `@FunctionalInterface` annotation to specify that the interface is FunctionalInterface.

```java
@FunctionalInterface // optional but help restrict fucntional interface at compile time
interface Interf {
  public void m1();
  default void m2() {

  }
  public static void m3() {

  }
}
```

## FunctionalInterface with respect to Inheritance
If an interface extends FunctionalInterface and child interface doesn’t contain any abstract method then child interface is also FunctionalInterface

```java
@FunctionalInterface
interface A {
  public void m1();
}

@FunctionalInterface
interface B extends A {
  // this is also considered as functiona interface by the compiler
}
```

## FunctionalInterface Vs Lambda Expressions
Once we write Lambda expressions to invoke it’s functionality, then FunctionalInterface is required.
We can use FunctionalInterface reference to refer Lambda Expression.
Where ever FunctionalInterface concept is applicable there we can use Lambda Expressions.

### Without Lambda Expression
```java
interface Interf {
  public void m1();
}

class demo implements Interf {
  public void m1() {
    System.out.println("Hello World");
  }
}
// in this code snippet class demo is used just to implement m1(), we can use lambda expression here

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
      // parent reference can hold child Object
      Interf i = new demo();
      i.m1();
    }
}
```

### With Lambda Expression
```java
interface Interf {
  public void m1();
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
      // parent reference can hold child Object
      Interf i = () -> { System.out.println("Hello World"); };
      i.m1();
    }
}
```

## Default methods
Until 1.7 version onwards inside interface we can take only `public abstract methods` and `public static final variables` (every method present inside interface is always public and abstract whether we are declaring or not).

- But from 1.8 version onwards in addition to these, we can declare default concrete methods also inside interface, which are also known as defender methods.

But from 1.8 version onwards in addition to these, we can declare default concrete methods also inside interface, which are also known as defender methods.

```java
interface Interf {
  void m1();
  // default method
  default void m2() {
    System.out.println("default method");
  }
}

public class Test implements Interf {
    public void m1() {}

    public static void main(String[] args) {
      Test t = new Test();
      t.m2();
    }
}
```

Default methods also known as defender methods or virtual extension methods.

The main advantage of default methods is without effecting implementation classes we can addnew functionality to the interface (backward compatibility).

### Default method vs multiple inheritance
Two interfaces can contain default method with same signature then there may be a chance of ambiguity problem(diamond problem) to the implementation class. to overcome this problem compulsory we should override default method in the implementation class otherwise we get compiletime error.

```java
interface left {
  default void m1() {
    System.out.println("left default method");
  }
}

interface right {
  default void m1() {
    System.out.println("left default method");
  }
}

class Main implements left, right {
    public static void main(String[] args) {

    }
}
```

### How to override default method in the implementation class?
In the implementation class we can provide complete new implementation or we can call any interface method as follows.

```
interfacename.super.m1();
```

```java
interface left {
  default void m1() {
    System.out.println("left default method");
  }
}

interface right {
  default void m1() {
    System.out.println("right default method");
  }
}

public class Main implements left, right {
    public void m1() {
      // System.out.println("default method own implemantation");
      // left.super.m1();
      // right.super.m1();
    }

    public static void main(String[] args) {
      Main t = new Main();
      t.m1();
    }
}
```

## Static methods inside interface
From 1.8version onwards in addition to default methods we can write static methods also inside interface to define utility functions.
Interface static methods by-default not available to the implementation classes hence by using implementation class reference we can’t call interface static methods. we should call interface static methods by using interface name.

```java
interface Interf {
  public static void m1() {
    System.out.println("Interface static method");
  }
}

public class Main implements Interf {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
      Interf.m1();   // valid
      // m1();     // Invalid
      // Main.m1();     // Invalid
      // Main t = new Main();
      // t.m1();  // Invalid
    }
}
```

As interface static methods by default not available to the implementation class, overriding concept is not applicable.
Based on our requirement we can define exactly same method in the implementation class, it’s valid but not overriding.

## Streams
To process objects of the collection, in 1.8 version Streams concept introduced.

### What is the differences between java.util.streams and java.io streams?
java.util streams meant for processing objects from the collection. Ie, it represents a stream of objects from the collection but java.io streams meant for processing binary and character data with respect to file. i.e it represents stream of binary data or character data from the file. hence java.io streams and java.util streams both are different.

### What is the difference between collection and stream?
if we want to represent a group of individual objects as a single entity then we should go for collection.
if we want to process a group of objects from the collection then we should go for streams.
we can create a stream object to the collection by using stream() method of Collection interface.
stream() method is a default method added to the Collection in 1.8 version.

default Stream stream()

Ex:

```java
Stream s = c.stream();
```

Stream is an interface present in java.util.stream.
once we got the stream, by using that we can process objects of that collection.

we can process the objects in the following two phases:
1. configuration
2. processing