# **literals & indetifiers**

## **Variable naming convensions**
- Only `alphabets, numbers, $ and _ `are allowed in a variable name. No other character is allowed.
- You cannot start a variable name with a number. It can start with only an alphabet or a $ sign or an _.

## **Operators**

Precedence determines the way in which operators are given priority amongst each other. An operator with higher precedence is evaluated before an operator of lower precedence.

you can check in javascript precedence chart

## **DataTypes :**

JavaScript has seven **primitive datatypes** - `[string, number, boolean, BigInt, null, undefined (six types in ES5)] and [Symbol (sixth type in ES6)]`.


### **Type Coercion :**

Type Coercion is the process in which one data type is converted into another in order for an operation to be performed.

> if you do an arithmetic operation on string, it would be converted into Number if the string is a valid number.
```js
// output will be number 16
console.log('4' * '4')
```

You also saw how to instruct JavaScript to convert a string to a number explicitly. The three methods you just learnt are:
- Use `Number()` functions
- Use `parseInt()` or `parseFloat()` function
- Use `+()` function The `+()` is the fastest way amongst all three.


### **Undefined && null :**

`Null` signifies that the container is purposefully kept empty. On the other hand, `undefined` means that the container does not have anything inside it. `Null` is like saying I am keeping my tea container empty. `Undefined` is like saying that I have a container but I have forgotten to put anything inside it. That’s why null is set by the user i.e you. This is not the case with undefined as any value which has not been defined is initialized undefined by the translator.

```js
console.log(1 + null)
//output->1
console.log(1 + undefined)
//output->NaN

```

You also learnt about `===`, which is known as the **strict equality operator.**
**It returns true only when both the data type as well as the values are equal.**

and `==`, which is know as as **equality operator**
**It returns true if the value is equal**



```js
console.log(typeof 12)  -> number
console.log(typeof true)  -> boolean
console.log(typeof string)  -> string
console.log(typeof undefined)  -> undefined
console.log(typeof null)  -> object 
```

### Truthy and Falsy values

All values are truthy unless they are defined as falsy. That is, all values are truthy except `[false, 0, -0, 0n, "", null, undefined, NaN]`.

#### || and && short-circuiting:
This Operation apart from boolean datatype,can operate on
Any Datatype, return any Datatype, and can perform shor-circuiting.

```js
let num;
// return -1 since num is notdefined yet, and the value undefined is a falsy value

let ans = num || -1;
console.log(ans)
```


## Differences between var, let, and const

|**var**                  | **let**               |            **const** |
|-------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------|
|The scope of a var variable is functional or global scope.|The scope of a let variable is block scope.|The scope of a const variable is block scope.|
|It can be updated and re-declared in the same scope.|It can be updated but cannot be re-declared in the same scope.|It can neither be updated or re-declared in any scope.|
|It can be accessed without initialization as its default value is “undefined”.|It cannot be accessed without initialization otherwise it will give ‘referenceError’.|It cannot be accessed without initialization, as it cannot be declared without initialization.|
|These variables are hoisted.|These variables are hoisted but stay in the temporal dead zone untill the initialization.|These variables are hoisted but stays in the temporal dead zone until the initialization.|

