# **Variables and Datatypes in JavaScript**

JavaScript is a dynamically typed (also called loosely typed) scripting language. That is, in JavaScript variables can receive different data types over time. Datatypes are basically typed data that can be used and manipulated in a program.

**The latest ECMAScript(ES6) standard defines the following data types:** Out of which six data types are Primitive(predefined). 

- **Numbers:** Represent both integer and floating-point numbers. Example: 5, 6.5, 7 etc.
- **String:** A string is a sequence of characters. In JavaScript, strings can be enclosed within the single or double quotes. Example: “Hello GeeksforGeeks” etc.
- **Boolean:** Represent a logical entity and can have two values: true or false.
- **Null:** This type has only one value: null. It is left intentionally so that it shows something that does not exist. 
- **Undefined:** A variable that has not been assigned a value is undefined.
- **Symbol:** Unlike other primitive data types, it does not have any literal form. It is a built-in object whose constructor returns a symbol-that is unique. 
- **bigint:** The bigint type represents the whole numbers that are larger than 253-1. To form a bigint literal number, you append the letter n at the end of the number.
- **Object:** It is the most important data-type and forms the building blocks for modern JavaScript. We will learn about these data types in detail in further articles.


**Before ES2015**, JavaScript variables were solely declared using the var keyword followed by the name of the variable and semi-colon. Below is the syntax to create variables in JavaScript: 

    var var_name;
    var x;

**After ES2015**, we now have two new variable containers: let and const. Now we shall look at both of them one by one. The variable type Let shares lots of similarities with var but unlike var, it has scope constraints. Let’s make use of the let variable:  

    // let variable
    let x; // undefined
    let name = 'Mukul';

    // Can also declare multiple values
    let a=1,b=2,c=3;

    // Assignment
    let a = 3;
    a = 4; // works same as var.


**Const** is another variable type assigned to data whose value cannot and will not change throughout the script. 

    // const variable
    const name = 'Mukul';
    name = 'Mayank'; // will give Assignment to constant variable error.